Problem 1. No. The cardinality of any finite $\sigma-\text{algebra}$ can only be a power of 2. I will prove this in problem 2 because a similar method is used to prove that.

Problem 2. No. To prove this by contradiction, we want to first show that there is a countably mutually disjoint subfamily of any countably infinite $\sigma-\text{algebra}$. Then the uncountability of the $\sigma-\text{algebra}$ follows easily by countable union.

Assuming it exists, let $X$ be a nonempty set and $\bold{X}$ be its countable $\sigma-\text{algebra}$. First, let's pick any element $x_1$ in $X$. Then we choose all the subsets of $X$ in the $\sigma-\text{algebra}$ that includes $x_1$, and then intersect them. Let's call that set $Y_1$. To be more precise $$Y_1 = \cap \{ Y \in \bold{X} \; | \; x_1 \in Y \}$$. This is in $\bold{X}$ by countable intersection. Since there are more than 2 subsets in $\bold{X}$, $Y_1 \ne X$. For problem 1, 2 is a power of 2. 

To continue, we want to use induction, so suppose we already have a set of mutually disjoint family $\{Y_1, Y_2, ..., Y_k\}$ for some natural number $k$, and such that $\cup \{Y_1, Y_2, ..., Y_k\} \ne X$, we can pick $x_{k+1}$ to be in the complement of $\cup \{Y_1, Y_2, ..., Y_k\} \ne X$, and construct $$Y_{k+1} = \cap \{ Y \in \bold{X} \; | \; x_{k+1} \in Y \}$$. Notice this is the smallest set in $\bold{X}$ that contains $x_{k+1}$. Also, we see that $$Y_{k+1} \subset X \; \backslash \cup \{Y_1, Y_2, ..., Y_k\}$$ because the right hand side is in $\bold{X}$, and $$Y_{k+1} \in \bold{X}$$ by countable intersection. 

Now either $Y_{k+1} = X \; \backslash \cup \{Y_1, Y_2, ..., Y_k\}$ for some $k+1 = n$ or otherwise $Y_{k+1} \ne \cup \{Y_1, Y_2, ..., Y_k\}$, which is needed for the proof by induction. In the first case, we have a finitely mutually disjoint subset of $\bold{X}$. We also notice that for all $X \in \bold{X}$, and for all $1 \leq i \leq n$, either  $$ \; Y_i \cap X = \emptyset \; \text{or} \; Y_i$$. This is because otherwise, suppose $Y_i \cap X = Z_i \ne Y_i$, either $x_i \in Z_i \; \text{or} \; X \backslash Z_i$, and by intersecting $Y_i$ with that set, we have just found another set in $\bold{X}$ that includes $x_{k+1}$ that is smaller than $Y_i$ which is impossible. This means any $X$ in $\bold{X}$ can be written as a union of $Y_i$'s. With that, a bijective map from $2^n$ to $\bold{X}$ follows straightforwardly. This result shows why the cardinality of any finite $\sigma-\text{algebra}$ is a power of 2 for problem 1, and why the induction is valid for problem 2.

With the induction proof complete, we can also easily see an injective map from $2^{\mathbb{N}}$ to $\bold{X}$ so the cardinality is uncountable.
